Puma related NEML2 addition (#227)
applied-material-modeling/neml2: doc/content/physics/reactive_infiltration.md

# Reactive Infiltration {#reactive-infiltration}

[TOC]

> The reactive infiltration physics module is a collection of objects serving as building blocks for composing model's describing reactive infiltration kinects as a solid \f$(S)\f$ material is infiltrated by a liquid \f$(L)\f$ to create a product \f$(P)\f$. The framework and usage of the model is explained below, with both mathematical formulations and example input files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reactive infiltration physics module is a collection of objects serving as building blocks for composing model's describing reactive infiltration kinetics as a solid \f$(S)\f$ material is infiltrated by a liquid \f$(L)\f$ to create a product \f$(P)\f$. The framework and usage of the model is explained below, with both mathematical formulations and example input files.
```

## Framework

### Representative Volume Element

The infiltration process for a material considers a cylindrical Representative Volume Element (RVE) with radius \f$R\f$ and span \f$H\f$, depicting a solid capillary of radius \f$r_o\f$, corresponding to the initial porosity of \f$\varphi_0\f$. The mathematical description of the model uses cylindrical coordinates and assumes axisymmetry around \f$r = 0\f$. 

As the liquid enters the cylinder, it reacts with a solid to form a product with thickness \f$\delta_P\f$, as shown schematically in the [figure below](@ref rve). 

\anchor rve

![The (a) top and (b) cross-section view of the Representative Volume Element (RVE) of a given state of the reactive infiltration process, depicting the outer solid walls, the infiltrated liquid and the product from the chemical reaction ][rve]{html: width=80%}
[rve]: asset/lsi_rve_simplify.svg

> Throughout this process, the solid radius, \f$r_o\f$, decreases while the product thickness, \f$\delta_P\f$, increases. Let \f$r_i\f$ denotes the innter radius of the product. In addition, define \f$\alpha_i\f$ (units of molar per volume) as the amount of substance in the RVE, and \f$\Omega_i = \dfrac{M_i}{\rho_i}\f$ as the molar volume of a material with molar mass \f$M_i\f$ (amu) and density \f$\rho_i\f$ (mass per volume), with subscripts taking \f$L\f$, \f$S\f$, and \f$P\f$, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout this process, the solid radius, \f$r_o\f$, decreases while the product thickness, \f$\delta_P\f$, increases. Let \f$r_i\f$ denote the inner radius of the product. In addition, define \f$\alpha_i\f$ (in units of mole per volume) as the amount of substance in the RVE, and \f$\Omega_i = \dfrac{M_i}{\rho_i}\f$ as the molar volume of a material with molar mass \f$M_i\f$ (in units of amu, or gram per mole) and density \f$\rho_i\f$ (mass per volume), with subscripts taking \f$L\f$, \f$S\f$, and \f$P\f$, respectively.
```

The initial-value problem (IVP) corresponding to the constitutive model is
\f[
    \mathbf{r} = \begin{Bmatrix}
        r_{\varphi_P} \\
        r_{\varphi_S}
    \end{Bmatrix} = \mathbf{0},
\f]
where \f$r_{\varphi_i}\f$ is the residual corresponding to the volume fraction of the liquid, solid and product. The residuals are defined below. Note an implicit backward-Euler time intergration scheme is used.

- Production rate of the product, dictates by the diffusion of the liquid through the product to react with the solid at the product-solid interface
\f[
    r_{\varphi_P} = \dfrac{\alpha_{P, n+1} - \alpha_{P, n}}{t_{n+1}-t_n} - \dfrac{2}{\Omega_L}\dfrac{D}{l_c^2}\dfrac{\bar{r}_o+\bar{r}_i}{\bar{r}_o-\bar{r}_i} R_L R_S
\f]
Here \f$R_L(\varphi_L), R_S(\varphi_S) \in [0, 1]\f$ are the reactivity of liquid and solid, represented by a step function of the void fraction, \f$\varphi_i\f$. 

- Reaction rate of the solid, with a (solid, product) reaction coefficient, \f$(k_S, k_P)\f$ respectively
\f[
    r_{\varphi_S} = \dfrac{\alpha_{S, n+1} - \alpha_{S, n}}{t_{n+1}-t_n} + \dfrac{k_P}{k_S} \dfrac{\alpha_{P, n+1} - \alpha_{P, n}}{t_{n+1}-t_n}
\f]

### Implementation Details

> The above governing equations are fairly general for a wide range of reactive infiltraion systems within this framework as long as the chemical reactions kinetics with the appropriate reaction coefficient (\f$k_i\f$), and the correct corresponding molar volume, \f$\Omega_i\f$, of the involving materials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above governing equations are fairly general for a wide range of reactive infiltration systems within this framework given the chemical reaction kinetics with appropriate reaction coefficient (\f$k_i\f$) and the corresponding molar volume \f$\Omega_i\f$ of the materials.
```

> <span style="color:red">Example</span> for determining \f$k_i\f$ and \f$\Omega_i\f$:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example for determining \f$k_i\f$ and \f$\Omega_i\f$:
```

> - Considered a reactive infiltraion process of liquid (chemical formula \f$L_x\f$) and solid (\f$S_y\f$), with the molar mass \f$M_L\f$ and \f$M_S\f$.
> - The chemical reactions create a product with chemical formula \f$L_m S_n\f$, with a reaction coefficient \f$k_S, k_P\f$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider a reactive infiltration process of liquid (chemical formula \f$L_x\f$) and solid (\f$S_y\f$), with the molar mass \f$M_L\f$ and \f$M_S\f$. The chemical reaction creates a product with chemical formula \f$L_m S_n\f$, with reaction coefficients \f$k_S\f$ and \f$k_P\f$.
```

\f[
    L_x + k_S S_y \rightarrow k_P L_mS_n 
\f]

> For chemical balance, the reaction coefficient is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For stoichiometric balance, the reaction coefficients are:
```

\f{align*}

>     &\ k_S = \dfrac{xn}{ym} \quad k_P = \dfrac{x}{m} 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    k_S = \dfrac{xn}{ym}, \quad k_P = \dfrac{x}{m} 
```

\f} 

> - The material density of the liquid, solid, product is \f$\rho_L, \rho_S, \rho_P\f$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The densities of the liquid, solid, and product are respectively \f$\rho_L, \rho_S, \rho_P\f$.
```

    
    Then, the molar volume is:

> \f{align*}
>     &\ \Omega_L = \dfrac{x M_L}{\rho_L} \quad \Omega_S = \dfrac{y M_S}{\rho_S} \quad \Omega_P = \dfrac{mn M_LM_S}{\rho_P}
> \f}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\f[
    \Omega_L = \dfrac{x M_L}{\rho_L}. \quad \Omega_S = \dfrac{y M_S}{\rho_S}, \quad \Omega_P = \dfrac{mn M_LM_S}{\rho_P}.
\f]
```

> The chemical equation also implies that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The instantaneous balance also implies that
```

\f[

>     \dot{\alpha}_S = \dfrac{k_P}{k_S} \dot{\alpha}_P 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \dot{\alpha}_S = \dfrac{k_P}{k_S} \dot{\alpha}_P.
```

\f]

> > Since this consitutive model considered \f$\alpha_L\f$ as the forcing function for the IVP problem. \f$\dot{\alpha}_L \ne k_P \dot{\alpha}_P\f$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this constitutive model considers \f$\alpha_L\f$ as the forcing function for the IVP problem, \f$\dot{\alpha}_L \ne k_P \dot{\alpha}_P\f$.
```
You need to remind me of the logic behind this...

| \f$ \dfrac{2}{\Omega_L}\dfrac{D}{l_c^2}\dfrac{\bar{r}_o+\bar{r}_i}{\bar{r}_o-\bar{r}_i} R_L R_S\f$ | [Product reaction rate](#DiffusionLimitedReaction) | [DiffusionLimitedReaction](#diffusionlimitedreaction) |
| \f$ R_L; \quad R_S \f$ | [Step Function](#HermiteSmoothStep) | [HermiteSmoothStep](#hermitesmoothstep) |
| \f$  \varphi_i = \alpha_i \Omega_i \f$ | --- | [Linear Combination](#scalarlinearcombination) |

| Residual Expression                                                        | Syntax            |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------- |
| \f$ r_{\varphi_P} = \dfrac{\alpha_{P, n+1} - \alpha_{P, n}}{t_{n+1}-t_n} - \dfrac{2}{\Omega_L}\dfrac{D}{l_c^2}\dfrac{\bar{r}_o+\bar{r}_i}{\bar{r}_o-\bar{r}_i} R_L R_S\f$  | [Linear Combination](#scalarlinearcombination), [Variable Rate](#scalarvariablerate)|
| \f$r_{\varphi_S} = \dfrac{\alpha_{S, n+1} - \alpha_{S, n}}{t_{n+1}-t_n} + \dfrac{k_P}{k_S} \dfrac{\alpha_{P, n+1} - \alpha_{P, n}}{t_{n+1}-t_n}\f$  | [Linear Combination](#scalarlinearcombination), [Variable Rate](#scalarvariablerate)|

## Model Building Blocks

> The RVE keeps track of the volume fraction of the liquid, solid and product, \f$\varphi_L, \varphi_S, \varphi_P\f$. \f$\varphi_L\f$ directly corresponds to the prescribed liquid substance \f$\alpha_L\f$ where \f$\varphi_S, \varphi_P\f$ is obtained from solving the IVP problem with [Implicit Update](#implicitupdate) syntax model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The RVE keeps track of the volume fraction of the liquid, solid and product, \f$\varphi_L, \varphi_S, \varphi_P\f$. \f$\varphi_L\f$ directly corresponds to the prescribed liquid substance \f$\alpha_L\f$ where \f$\varphi_S and \varphi_P\f$ are obtained from solving the IVP problem with [ImplicitUpdate](#implicitupdate).
```

\f]

Example input file that defines the product reaction rate
```
[Models]
  [model]
    type = DiffusionLimitedReaction
    diffusion_coefficient = 1e-3
    molar_volume = 1
    product_inner_radius = 'state/ri'
    solid_inner_radius = 'state/ro'
    liquid_reactivity = 'state/R_l'
    solid_reactivity = 'state/R_s'
    reaction_rate = 'state/alpha_rate'
  []
[]
```

### Hermite Smooth Step Function {#HermiteSmoothStep}
Model object [HermiteSmoothStep](#hermitesmoothstep)

A cubic Hermite interpolation after clambing is used as a smooth step function:
\f{align*}
    &0 & x_r \le 0 \\
    R(x) = & 3x_r^2 - 2x_r^3 & 0 \ge x_r \le 1 \\
    &0 & x_r \ge 1
\f}
where
\f[
    x_r = \dfrac{x-x_l}{x_u-x_l}
\f]
Here, \f$x_l,x_u\f$ denote the lower and upper bound of the smoothen transition regime.

> The Hermite Function is used in the reactive infiltration for the liquid and solid reactivity \f$R_i\f$

Example input file that use the smooth step function

```
[Models]
  [model]
    type = HermiteSmoothStep
    argument = 'state/foo'
    value = 'state/bar'
    lower_bound = '0'
    upper_bound = '0.05'
  []
[]

> ```

Reviewer: I think I still prefer these object descriptions to go into the source files. Like `options.doc() = "......"`.

Reviewer: I was convinced to leave them here.

## Complete Input File

> A complete example input file for the reactive infiltration is shown below with the appropriate model composition. The parameters are chosen to reflect a liquid silicon infiltration (LSI) on carbon foam.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A complete example input file for the reactive infiltration is shown below with the appropriate model composition.
```
NEML2 promised to not use "realistic" parameters...
